What different battles did you, during the Tet,
when were you wounded during what year? Right at
the heart of the Tet event. And, well, I was wounded
twice. I was wounded in 65. You know, I stepped on
that mine and I was paralyzed for 10 months. And I
declared never to walk again, but I did, you know,
because of faith. Because of determination, and
that's why I'm I tell these youngsters in schools
when I go. I spoke to Texas A&M. Did you know about
that? Yeah, he said he thought that you had been on
campus. I spoke to those Aggies. In fact, they were
getting me mad because I didn't know of the way that
they have a way of approving and disapproving of
your remarks. And I was getting that whoop, whoop,
whoop, whoop. And I thought they were making fun of
me. You didn't know that the Aggie whoop, whoop
meant that it was good, huh? That's right. And
especially, I got a real whoop-whoop when I said,
one of the song micromanagers who was a graduate of
Texas A&M, of A&M,
that I learned two things. Either to follow,
leave, or drink beer and get the hell out of the way.
He said, whoop-whoop, whoop-whoop, whoop. No,
I don't know what... about the question that you
asked? When you were wounded? When I was wounded?
Okay. I didn't know. I was completely sorry in
1965. I never find out anything. I'm supposed to
meet a guy that's 20 years in San Antonio, Texas,
who said I saved his life. I don't know how I saved
his life, because I don't remember. I woke up in the
Philippine Islands in Glock Air Force Base. And I
was paralyzed. And I brought myself together. I
used to stand up. Did you see that show that I did for
real people? No, I didn't get to see that. Yeah, it
showed, you know, at the 100th grade. I'd drop out
of bed and crawl up to the wall and back myself and
pick up myself and stand there and try to move my
toes. And I did that for 10 months, boy. Sometimes
the nurses would catch me, you know, and they'd
give me a pill and a shot and put me
to sleep. But the doctor said that I never walked
again. And I walked out of the hospital. Thank God I
did. I went back in 68. I volunteered. I made three
pressure jumps in one day after I got out of the
hospital. I brought myself physically in.
You know, it's willpower that a person should
have. That's why I tell these youngsters, you
know, there's faith. And I ask them, what are the
very first words that you utter when you need help?
Oh my God. And that's you. If you want something
done, you'll find a way. I was taught in the schools
and in the Army, especially in the Air Force, that
quitters never win and winners never quit. So I'm a
winner.
And in that show of real people, I was speaking at a
school,
and a little girl came in and asked a question as to,
you know, after I'd been shot up six, seven times
and band-aids and so forth, I thought about giving
up. And I told her, I said, no, honey, I said, don't
marry, don't never give up. I mean, that's just the
way I feel. You know, you fight the last drop. I
mean, that enemy is just like you. You're better
training him, so it's you or him.
Then in 68, then I went back. Uh, that, uh, Dan Masek
was one of the volunteers to go get those, those men
out.
It was a, it was a trip of no return. And because the
whole darn mission was already, it's, it was a
highly classified mission. And there was no
return in any company. They shut off the
operation. But those poor guys, they needed help.
And I'm glad that the other helicopter that came
over to my area didn't know about that. There was no
other helicopter before that. Which eventually
they went later.
Maybe we could have saved some more. What unit were
you with? I was the Taxman B-56 Sigma of the 5th
Special Forces. We were in the Intelligence
Reconference Team. We were trained to gather
information from the enemy, the size, the
location,
and the morale. We went on some long, lonely
missions at times, away behind lines. And we got
pretty good information. That was during the,
there was more of that. But see, it's what really
gets me that they're only
questioning those that were right there on the
staff. They're not questioning the people that
were feeding the information
to them. Those are the men that know. I mean,
whether one of these men back over here on the staff
Well, had it in for the general and he would make it
up and no one knows. No one knows. False
information. He had no way of knowing whether the
information was true or not. That's right. He just
had to go, he had to depend on the people under him
to... Well, you see that plaque that I have and
that's what, that's what that commentator, that
plaque of West Point that I have right under the
president now, uh, uh, One of the commentators,
reporters in that CBS network, when the general
got very disappointed, and he got a little bit
disturbed when he said that his integrity had been
insulted. And that reporter reminded the general
of the code of West Point Census. The general was a
West Point graduate. And the code, duty, honor,
and country. A cadet does not lie, cheat, or steal,
or tolerate those that do. Now that, to me, I was
trained by Westmoreland. I had commanders, and I
lived by that code also.
Anyone that comes next, they don't know what
they're
talking about. I hope he wins the case. But my
question is, how come we're not interviewed? Us
that were gathering intelligence and
information. They have just as much top secret
plans as we have.
But I bet you if they would, then they'd really know
the truth.
They're going to be very selective on who they
interview. Well, probably so. Probably.
It's one thing that we have, that some
professionals have, that we're not out to glorify
ourselves when we come into contact with you.
We're out to help one another.
I mean, if I'm asked, did you do this, did you do
that? Yes, I did. I'm not going to say that he
ordered me. Because maybe in his staff meetings,
he wasn't told exactly everything, the way things
were going back then.
You said that you attended the Memorial Day
services in Washington when they unveiled the new
monument and everything. Do you think that it's a
worthy monument to the Vietnam veterans? I think
it is. It is a symbol of gratitude. I think that the
public
that goes there sense that thoughtfulness. And in
a way, they're trying to, well, we put it on
ourselves. We work for it ourselves. We just want
to show the public, hey, We're doing this for our
own self. I mean, you neglected it now. But now they
want to, you should have seen it, I tell you, there
in those restaurants and those bars. Even the cab
drivers would give them a free ride. Because they
knew, they knew the way the others were treated
there. And there's people that go there and they
take pictures that people would just stand there
with tears in their eyes. Whether they had a son
that died in Vietnam or not, but the kid next door,
the guy that lived with, that little boy, just like
John that lives across from us, you know, we love
that little kid. Not only because he's the only son
in the family, but he comes, you know, and we move
here. He comes to stay with us, he comes to eat here,
and everything. And, uh, I won't say too much about
the other name. Do you think it's significant on
the monument that it has a black man? No, I don't
think it's that much. I think it's just that they,
you know, we got what we wanted and we just wanted to
put that. I mean, we could have put a woman there.
You know, they'd serve too. And probably they're
trying to come up with the idea. But what, are we
going to put three women there too? Because if
three women serve,
Well, when I saw it on TV,
you know, to me,
I thought, well, you know, It's really good that
there's the white man, the black man, and the brown
man, showing that it wasn't just one person
fighting the war, that it was a unified thing
between all the races. It's like the stamp. Did you
see the Hispanic stamp? No. That's been an honor
for them, and the honor was different.
When did you, so you left Vietnam in, in 68 after you
were wounded. And they, where did you go after
that? Well, I came, well, I came to three
hospitals. I came through Japan, and I came
through California, and I landed in, in Fort
Tampines, in the region of Virginia, in San
Antonio. How long were you in the hospital? All
total, from the time I got hit and then to about the
time that I was released, I was over a year. Where
was your family at this time? They were here in El
Campo. And when were you, when did you, after that,
did you, were you still in the service? When did
you, were you discharged from the service? No, I
continue, you know, I got rehabilitated and I got,
you know, thanks to the modern technology and
doctors, good doctors.
I was allowed to remain in the military. I couldn't
jump anymore out of airplanes and I couldn't be in
the special forces anymore. However, I did try.
When I was released, I was sent to...
I went to Fort Deven, Massachusetts with the 10
Special Forces group. And that group there does
some mountain training, mountain climbing,
skiing. Every group in the Special Forces has a
different area of training and expertise. Well,
they're all trained in light and heavy weapons,
engineering, mechanics, in operation
intelligence, and communication. But the
different areas of the country, of the world,
they're trained for those different parts. They
have a responsibility for parts of the world. And I
was there. And then I found out I just couldn't jump
anymore, and it hurt me. It hurt myself. So I was
sent to Fort Ryder, Kansas. And I was given a death
jab, which I hated. But still, you know, I was in the
troop. And I went to Europe on the Reef Hoarder
exercise for seven weeks. I loved it. I really got
out to the field. Sometimes my commander, you
know, he'd get mad a little bit. But I wanted to be
with the troops, you know, because I was a field
soldier. And I returned back. I went, I stayed
there two years in Kansas. And then I was assigned
to drive for a general, a commander. And then I was
transferred to Fort St.
Houston. How long were you in Fort St. Houston?
Well, I was there, I think, four years. And until
the general retired, and then I was given another
assignment, which I persuaded them into letting
me be an advisor to the reserve unit so I could be out
and do the troops. And they had special forces
reserves, you know. So, you know, they thought
that, they didn't know the full extent of my
health. I wasn't about to tell them any time. I'd
rather hurt than be out there in the field, you
know, than to be behind a desk, listening to
telephones and everything. And then my injuries
started catching up with me naturally as I was
getting older. And there were some bad times that,
you know, that I shouldn't really be enough to the
field and exaggerate the training. So I had to go
on. important, you know, get a physical. And at
times, the doctor, you know, he would tell me to
say, that's it, you know, you're wasting yourself
just because of the pride that you have of being a
Green Maria. Well, you know, either to or die. But I
was boarded out. Five doctors came to a conclusion
at eight. You're not fit for military duty. Let's
face it. It's not that you can't do it. It's just
that you can't do it by regulation. So I thought
that if these five doctors had concluded that,
then why should I be putting a senior
non-commissioned officer corps in the chamber?
Because when I was leading the troops, naturally,
I had to set the example. And you can't set no
example by walking crippled or sitting down and
letting the troops go by. You have to be the first
one up front and you have to be with them early in the
morning. You can't slow down. You're sending a bad
example. So I had to accept that I did. So after 25
years I said, hey, we're going to magically
discharge you because they did. In what year was
that? 1976. 1976. When did you find, when did you
begin your, or find out about the Medal of Honor and
start your... Well, I knew, I knew, I found out
about that in, in 70, 73, when I was there in San
Antonio before San Houston. I met a an officer that
I had served with, my commander, and he knew of my
action. He was an intelligence officer. And we had
coffee one day, and he asked me about the medley. I
said, well, I didn't know nothing about it. My
commander thought I was dead, and everybody
thought I was dead, all but him when he saw me there.
And then we, that was in the 70s, We started the ball
rolling, and we dug up the original
recommendation, and they stated, you know, the
Malabano was recommended, but an internal war was
made.
And so, we had to start from scratch. We had to find
the commander again. We found Colonel Drake. We
found him in Louisiana. And... Well, you know, of
course, I drove down there to see him, and that was a
moment I tell you. In fact, he said that he wanted to
take a picture that embraced him. He said he never
embraced his wife like that. Of course, we were
happy to see each other, you know. And the last
piece on was, I was floating in my own blood. And I
couldn't talk to him. I could just wiggle my toes.
Then he reconstructed. He didn't know the full
extent of mine, actually. He didn't know that I had
volunteered
to go. Then he reconstructed me. How long? And then
I had to find witnesses. And I found an eyewitness.
It took me from 73 to 81.
You were awarded the, in that 1981 is when you were
awarded the medal. Yeah. See, but it started from
May of 68. You just laid dormant all those years,
and you didn't know anything about it. Yeah, well,
you see, that's why the people in the surrounding
area came. They thought that I was asking for the
medal. I just wanted to widen it, to dig up the
record, and I need it. Moral support, and I needed
it from the veterans organization.
One organization said, and this was a very highly
publicized veteran organization, and said, hey,
we're not supposed to get involved with the
ex-serviceman in the war. Well, golly. And the
veterans organization, well, because this is
local, they didn't want it. Had my name been Jones
or Mitchell, it would have been different.
Even though there's supposed to be no prejudice,
there's still a lot of prejudice, isn't there? A
lot of jealousy. Jealousy. You have to consider
the sources. But it's hard. It's hard. It's hard
for me and my kid, because he goes through the peer
pressure. I mean, what am I supposed to do? get up
and leave. One of my neighbors, the kids, they can
play together, but they can't step in her yard. And
yet her kids can run across my yard any time.
It's a shame that people have these jealousies and
can't just accept everybody as they are.
What effects do you think of the separation from
your family? Did you, do you think there was any
problems being separated from your family so long
being in the service? Do you think it's hard on, on
wives and children to be dependents of
servicemen? Well, yeah, but see my wife, my wife
knew that I, my career, of course we, we got, we were
married when I began my career. And I had told her,
you know, I had explained to her, this is my life,
this is my career. You marry in the Army, you're not
married to me. So, you know, she accepted it,
because I had sit down and talked this over, you
know, friends we're gonna meet, places we're
gonna travel to, and everything. And before you,
whatever, you can say no, or you can say yes.
There's no other work that I can do better than to be
a soldier. And I've learned a lot of skills. That's
why I tell the youngsters in school, I've learned a
lot of good traits. And I got my education in the
military. Not only traveling, but I started my
college education. I got my high school diploma. I
went to an MP school. I was an investigator. I was an
interpreter. I am an interrogator. I know
fingerprint. I know meteorology. I know chemical
warfare techniques.
I know foreign languages. I could have never done
nothing out here. I'd have to pay for it. The
military paid for it. I traveled at the expense of
the taxpayers' money. And I served my country. I
traveled all over the world. So, yes, they had some
sort of hardship, but then they understood. And
we've been back for 26 years now. What hardship
there was, I don't know. At times I felt bad, yes.
But still, you know, she stayed behind me and I'm
glad. There's some broken marriages because they
don't talk things and they don't want to. And maybe
it's best. Maybe it's best to
separate. But there's some people that are cut out
for certain jobs and that's it. And everybody
agrees on it. And you don't fight the system. It
just happened that I got severely wounded, and the
Army takes care of the military. This government
takes care of the veterans. And so I'm happy to take
care of it. How do you spend your time now? What is
your main objective as far as working with the
military or in any space that you can? Oh, well, I,
you know, I'm called to come and make speeches to
various colleges and schools, ROTC's, and I'm
writing my autobiography, you know, I have a
Pulitzer Prize winner that goes right. And I just
enjoy my kids, you know, we stay together and we
travel. Just like, you know, the retired person.
But I like to, I don't like to, but I do go visit
patients in the hospital, you know, veterans. I
hate to see them there because I remember my days,
you know, there. And I know what they're going
through. I know that some of these doctors,
there's nothing they can do for them. And I know
some of these Others, they're members of the
family, they want everything done overnight. I
know some of these veterans, they're killed,
they've been neglected
through their benefits. And so, they called on me
to help them. I had friends all over the country
that advised me, lawyers and what not. And I'd get
someone and say, oh, women widows. There's a lady
that's having problems. She works at the bank.
She's having problems with her husband. Her
husband, her brother-in-law, her husband's
brother and I were in the service together. And I
walked in the bank one day, and I noticed a name. And
we talked. We got acquainted. And she said, yeah,
I've heard a lot about you. That my brother-in-law
used to talk about you. And so she asked me if I heard
about it. So I told her, I think she went to the
proper authorities. And you also said that you
that's something that's really important to you,
is working with the POW and the MIA. Yes, I'm
involved with them. In fact, I happened to write a
letter to a guy in Anchorage, Alaska, that they
want to get involved with a mine of bracelet, and he
wants to set up a little program up there for the
MIA. There's a lady here in Palacios that I want to
go see. Her son's been
missing since 1959, I think. She doesn't know, you
know, she's a Hispanic lady. She doesn't know the
benefits, the rights that she had with her mother.
And so I'm going to go in here and advise on that. I,
uh, I hope that, that, uh, you know, these, these,
uh, students who get involved, uh, to help, uh, to
call the right, uh, the, uh, government, North
American government. I mean, what? What? Why are
we holding on to this? These youngsters, just
think, it's going to be Christmas. How do you think
some of these youngsters, they never knew their
dad. They were too little, they'd never seen him.
How can they be watching TV, singing Christmas
carols and enjoying themselves when things would
come to their mind about their dad sitting over
there in some little wooden cage? not knowing what
day it is, and not even good about it. How many MIAs
do they, POWs do they think are still over there?
The last count that we had, there was 2,992, I
think. POWs? Yeah. I know there's 164 in Texas.
I've got all their names. There are 16 Hispanic, 19
Hispanic.
Well, I'd like to thank you for sharing your life
and story with us. Thank you. I hope you make an A.
And I've certainly enjoyed seeing all your posts.
beautiful things you have. I've got some more
since the last time. See that big Indian right
there? Yeah. That guy here with Chicago and the
North.